# gait-analysis
## Development of a Markerless Gait Analysis System using a Single Camera and Pose Estimation Software
Clinical gait analysis is an important indicator of one’s health as it  can be used to determine abnormal gait patterns and diagnose issues so that proper treatment can be recommended. Available methods for such are often expensive, difficult to set up, and inaccessible to remote locations, among other issues triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic. Current advancements in technology aim to resolve these issues with continuous developments especially in the field of gait analysis for rehabilitation. This study aims to develop a different approach for markerless gait analysis using only a single camera and integrate it into a software that requires minimal equipment and effort. Thus, allowing it to be more accessible in remote healthcare facilities.

This study will be implemented using Python, C++, and MATLAB through different phases: video pre-processing, gait parameters extraction, and results verification by comparing it to a gait normative database. This study will utilize a publicly available dataset [1] consisting of overground walking sequences of RGB video recordings from multiple perspectives and three-dimensional motion capture gait data of 32 healthy participants. Specifically, the key points of the subjects from the video recordings in the sagittal plane view will be detected using OpenPose, an open-source human pose estimation algorithm for images [2]. In the video pre-processing phase, the accuracy of keypoint detection will be enhanced by adjusting the brightness and contrast to maximize the tonal range of the frames. Probabilistic filtering using the Kalman Filter will be applied on the OpenPose key points to estimate the real pose and add correlations in time. Once body segments and keypoint are accurately detected, data produced will be used in the extraction of gait parameters. The core of gait analysis is the measurement of joint kinematics and kinetics [3]. In the gait parameters extraction phase, spatiotemporal gait parameters (stride length, step length, step duration, stride duration) and the kinematic sagittal joint angle of lower extremities will be determined. Lastly, the extracted parameters will be compared to the normative gait data to verify the accuracy and mean absolute errors of the results. Once the results are verified, the phases will be integrated into a user-friendly interface that can execute the gait analysis process using a single camera, which is mentioned above.

[1] B. Kwolek, A. Michalczuk, T. Krzeszowski, A. Switonski, H. Josinski, and K. Wojciechowski, “Calibrated and synchronized multi-view video and motion capture dataset for evaluation of Gait Recognition,” Multimedia Tools and Applications, vol. 78, no. 22, pp. 32437–32465, Aug. 2019. 
[2] J. Stenum, C. Rossi, and R. T. Roemmich, “Two-dimensional video-based analysis of human gait using pose estimation,” PLOS Computational Biology, vol. 17, no. 4, Apr. 2021. 
[3] R. Baker, “Gait analysis methods in rehabilitation,” Journal of NeuroEngineering and Rehabilitation, vol. 3, no. 1, Mar. 2006.
